# ro-crate-tools
Hi! This is a public repository for sharing ro-crate tools generated by the community. Please share away

## How to structure your contribution?

This is open to change. I can suggest:

### snake_case folder

if you upload your tool in a folder/directory in "snake_case" (lower cased). In each folder please include a README.md 

### A README.md

With detailed instructions on how to use it.

And if possible a how to contact each contributor in each readme at the begining of the README.md

### The Tool

Preferable a plain text file/files such as a python script or a JavaScript file. If it is a binary file such as an excel file to prefer xlsx. If a binary file is the tool, the instructions on how to compile it, or a link to the binary.


### Suggestions and Bugs

Please use Issues in this repository


## How to contribute?

#### If you don't have git on your machine, [install it](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git).

### Fork this repository

Fork this repository by clicking on the fork button on the top of this page.
This will create a copy of this repository in your account.

### Clone the repository

Clone the forked repository to your machine. Go to your GitHub account, open the forked repository, click on the code button and then click the _copy to clipboard_ icon.

Open a terminal and run the following git command:

```bash
git clone "url you just copied"
```

where "url you just copied" (without the quotation marks) is the url to this repository (your fork of this project). See the previous steps to obtain the url.

For example:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:this-is-you/ro-crate-tools.git
```

where `this-is-you` is your GitHub username. Here you're copying the contents of the ro-crate-tools repository on GitHub to your computer.

### Create a branch

Change to the repository directory on your computer (if you are not already there):

```bash
cd ro-crate-tools
```

Now create a branch using the `git switch` command:

```bash
git switch -c your-new-branch-name
```

For example:

```bash
git switch -c add-pedro-tool
```

### Make necessary changes and commit those changes

If you go to the project directory and execute the command `git status`, you'll see there are changes.

Add those changes to the branch you just created using the `git add` command:

```bash
git add my_tool/*
```

Now commit those changes using the `git commit` command:

```bash
git commit -m "Added my_tool"
```

### Push changes to GitHub

Push your changes using the command `git push`:

```bash
git push -u origin your-branch-name
```

replacing `your-branch-name` with the name of the branch you created earlier.

<details>
<summary> <strong>If you get any errors while pushing, click here:</strong> </summary>

- ### Authentication Error
     <pre>remote: Support for password authentication was removed on August 13, 2021. Please use a personal access token instead.
  remote: Please see https://github.blog/2020-12-15-token-authentication-requirements-for-git-operations/ for more information.
  fatal: Authentication failed for 'https://github.com/<your-username>/ro-crate-tools.git/'</pre>
  Go to [GitHub's tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account) on generating and configuring an SSH key to your account.

</details>

### Submit your changes for review

If you go to your repository on GitHub, you'll see a `Compare & pull request` button. Click on that button.

Now submit the pull request.

Soon we'll be merging all your changes into the main branch of this project. You will get a notification email once the changes have been merged.
